mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
a smartphone uses a four digit passcode
like 0 1 3 1 San wants to reset the
passcode such that the new passcode
cannot have the digit 1 followed by the
digit 3 how many different pass codes
can be formed this is adapted from the
2019 SPM paper in Malaysia
I think George tan for the suggestion
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
we'll get started by noticing the total
number of passcodes equals the total
number of pass codes width 1 followed by
3 plus the total number without 1
followed by 3 we can rearrange this
equation and calculate the first and
second quantities to get the third
quantity the reason is that these will
be easier to calculate how many pass
codes are possible there are 4 different
spots which can each have up to 10
different digits so each spot can have a
total number of 10 possibilities the
total number of pass fields for 4 digits
will be the product of 10 10 10 and 10
this will equal 10 to the power of 4
which equals 10,000 now let's calculate
the total number of pass codes width 1
followed by 3 one way that we can get a
pass code width 1 followed by 3 is to
have 1 and 3 in the first two spots then
we can have 10 possibilities for the
third spot and 10 possibilities for the
fourth spot this will be a total of 10
times 10 or 100 possibilities we can
also have 1 and 3 in the second and
third spots just as before this will be
a total of 100 possibilities because the
other two spots can have 10
possibilities each
we could also have one in three in the
third and fourth spots and this will be
a total of 100 possibilities but we have
to be careful when we're counting the
code 1 3 1 3 is counted in both the
first and the third situations we double
counted this code therefore we need to
subtract 1 to get the total number of
pass codes with 1 followed by 3 this
will be equal to 100 plus 100 plus 100
minus 1 because we've double counted
1313 this will therefore be equal to 299
we can then take 10,000 minus 299 and
get the answer that there are 9701 pass
codes without 1 followed by 3 it's a
challenging problem if you don't know
how to solve it but with practice this
is a routine calculation and I hope you
watch more of these videos so that this
problem will be easy for you
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]